2023.6.0 (#27692)
home-assistant/home-assistant.github.io: source/_posts/2023-06-07-release-20236.markdown

---
layout: post
title: "2023.6: Network storage, favorite light colors, new integrations dashboard"
description: "Add and use network storage, the integrations dashboard got a revamp, add your favorite colors to your lights, copy & paste support for automations, blazing speed through Python 3.11, and Matter and Z-Wave updates."
date: 2023-06-07 00:00:00
date_formatted: "June 7, 2023"
author: Franck Nijhof
author_twitter: frenck
comments: true
categories:
  - Release-Notes
  - Core
og_image: /images/blog/2023-06/social.png
---

<a href='/integrations/#version/2023.6'><img src='/images/blog/2023-06/social.png' style='border: 0;box-shadow: none;'></a>

Home Assistant Core 2023.6! 🎉

Get ready for a classic, old-fashioned, jam-packed release! 🤯

I am excited about so many things being shipped in this release that it is
hard to pick a favorite 😅 This release has it all.

Being able to directly use and back up my Home Assistant configuration to my
network storage is absolutely incredible! But I also really enjoy the new and
clean integrations dashboard and pages.

The feature that greatly improved the Home Approval Factor in my household

> is definitely the addition of the new favorite colors they can quickly pick

Reviewer: I had to read this sentence a couple of times before I got it. I don't come up with a better yet though.

Author: I see what you mean. Simplified it a bit to make it more readable.

in Home Assistant.

<img class="no-shadow" src='/images/blog/2023-06/network-storage.png' alt='Screenshot showing two external network storages attached to Home Assistant.'>

Even better: You can use it as a target for your backups so that when
Home Assistant creates a backup for you, it will store it directly on
your network storage.

Multiple network storages are also supported; if you like, you can
easily add more.

## Integrations dashboard & pages

The integrations dashboard has gotten a major overhaul!

There have been quite some usability issues with the previous version of the
integration dashboard. For example, if you use [ESPHome] with many devices,
you are undoubtedly familiar with the annoying scrolling in that little card. Or,
big error messages stretching those cards out, messing up the whole page.

This release brings in a whole new integrations dashboard that addresses many
of these issues, aiming to provide a cleaner and more consistent experience.

<img class="no-shadow" src='/images/blog/2023-06/integrations-dashboard.png' alt='Screenshot showing the look and feel of the new integrations dashboard.'>

> Device base integrations, like ESPHome, are combined: no more scrolling.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Device based integrations, like ESPHome, are combined: no more scrolling.
```

A failing integration does not stretch the layout and no longer makes the
layout "jump" during retries. Custom integrations and integrations relying
on the cloud are now more visibly marked.

Selecting the cog icon on the integration card will bring you to a brand new

> integrations page, showing all information about integration:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
integrations page, showing all information about the integration:
```

## Added to the entity dialog: last changed

By popular request, the information on when an entity was last changed has
been added back to the new entity information dialogs.

Not only that, [@piitaya] added a very nice easter egg! You can click on it
to toggle between the relative and absolute format!

<center><img class="no-shadow" src='/images/blog/2023-06/toggle-last-changed.gif' alt='Screen recording demonstrating how to toggle between relative and absolute time.'></center>

[@piitaya]: https://github.com/piitaya

## Related information

Which automation is using that blueprint? Well, Home Assistant can now tell you
that! On the {% my blueprints title="**Settings** > **Automations & Scenes** > **Blueprints**" %}
page, select the three dotted menu on any blueprint to discover which
automations are using that blueprint.

Not only that, if you accidentally remove a blueprint that is still in use,
Home Assistant will stop you from removing it and tell you which automations
still rely on it.

Hold on; there is more related! The related items in the entity information

> dialog got improved as well. Told old list of links is gone, and it now shows

Reviewer: ```suggestion
dialog got improved as well. The old list of links is gone, and it now shows
```

a way more modern view of all related items for an entity:

<img class="no-shadow" src='/images/blog/2023-06/related-information.png' alt='Screenshot of the improved related entity information dialog.'>

Notice how it nicely links back to the new integration page here too!

## Copy 'n paste support in the automation editor

An amazing contribution by [@karwosts] in this release that adds cut, copy
& paste capabilities to the automation and script editors!

You can now copy and paste any trigger, condition, and action into different
places of your automation and even paste it into a different automation
altogether!

> <img class="no-shadow" src='/images/blog/2023-06/cut-copy-past-automations.gif' alt='Screen recording demonstrating cutting & pasting an condition in the automation editor.'>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<img class="no-shadow" src='/images/blog/2023-06/cut-copy-past-automations.gif' alt='Screen recording demonstrating cutting & pasting a condition in the automation editor.'>
```

configuration has been imported in previous releases and can now be safely
removed from your YAML configuration files.

([@gjohansson-ST] - [#93552]) ([documentation](/integrations/frontier_silicon))

[@gjohansson-ST]: https://github.com/gjohansson-ST
[#93552]: https://github.com/home-assistant/core/pull/93552

{% enddetails %}

{% details "Google Nest" %}

The Google Nest YAML configuration has been fully removed. You should ensure you
have imported your configuration and credentials into the UI before upgrading.

Nest Desktop or OOB authentication, which was previously disabled by Google,
has now been removed.

([@allenporter] - [#92311]) ([documentation](/integrations/nest))

[@allenporter]: https://github.com/allenporter
[#92311]: https://github.com/home-assistant/core/pull/92311

{% enddetails %}

{% details "IBM Watson TTS" %}

Home Assistant was still using the legacy Python pip package resolver, which
has been removed. Due to upstream package conflicts, the IBM Watson TTS
integration has been disabled.

The upstream project providing the libraries used has been notified repeatedly
in, at least, the past two years; unfortunately, without response. We had no

> other choice to disable disabling this integration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
other choice than to disable this integration.
```

([@frenck] - [#92124]) ([documentation](/integrations/watson_tts))

[@frenck]: https://github.com/frenck
[#91492]: https://github.com/home-assistant/core/pull/92124

{% enddetails %}

{% details "IHC Controller" %}

The default unit of measurement for manually set up sensors from IHC has been

> removed. Home Assistant now assume all sensors with a unit of measurement set

Reviewer: ```suggestion
removed. Home Assistant now assumes all sensors with a unit of measurement set
```

are a number. IHC sensors can be text, but because of the default unit of
measurement, there is currently no way to get text sensors from IHC working.

This is a breaking fix because if you currently have temperature sensors
without a unit of measurement set, you will have to set this for the sensors.

([@dingusdk] - [#91096]) ([documentation](/integrations/ihc))

[@dingusdk]: https://github.com/dingusdk
[#93054]: https://github.com/home-assistant/core/pull/93054

{% enddetails %}

{% details "LG Netcast" %}

LG Netcast media players no longer have fake (assumed) `playing` or `paused`
states, and those are replaced with the `on` state.

If you used the `playing` or `paused` state in your automations, you will need
to update them to match this change.

([@Drafteed] - [#93543]) ([documentation](/integrations/lg_netcast))

[@Drafteed]: https://github.com/Drafteed
[#93543]: https://github.com/home-assistant/core/pull/93543

{% enddetails %}

{% details "Meteorologisk institutt (Met.no)" %}

The weather forecast provided by the weather entity has changed. The current

> day has been added to the forecast. If your automation or scripts relied

Reviewer: ```suggestion
day has been added to the forecast. If your automations or scripts rely
```

> on the first day to be tomorrow, you would need to adjust.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
on the first day to be tomorrow, you need to adjust them.
```

[#93792]: https://github.com/home-assistant/core/pull/93792

{% enddetails %}

{% details "Nextcloud" %}

The previously deprecated YAML configuration of the Nextcloud
integration has been removed.

Nextcloud is now configured via the UI. Any existing YAML
configuration has been imported in previous releases and can now be safely
removed from your YAML configuration files.

([@gjohansson-ST] - [#93550]) ([documentation](/integrations/nextcloud))

[@gjohansson-ST]: https://github.com/gjohansson-ST
[#93550]: https://github.com/home-assistant/core/pull/93550

{% enddetails %}

{% details "Obihai" %}

The previously deprecated YAML configuration of the Obihai
integration has been removed.

Obihai is now configured via the UI. Any existing YAML
configuration has been imported in previous releases and can now be safely
removed from your YAML configuration files.

([@gjohansson-ST] - [#93549]) ([documentation](/integrations/obihai))

[@gjohansson-ST]: https://github.com/gjohansson-ST
[#93549]: https://github.com/home-assistant/core/pull/93549

{% enddetails %}

{% details "Persistent notifications" %}

Persistent notifications are no longer stored in the state machine. This means

> that we no longer create an entity for each persistent notification.

Reviewer: Have we decided if we're going to add a template helper?

Author: @MartinHjelmare They can do nothing. There is nothing; the template helper is in draft, not this release.

I did push a small change in https://github.com/home-assistant/home-assistant.io/pull/27692/commits/eb36ba1a21be270b872de6ce64c68797360f467b to clarify it cannot be used anymore.

---
layout: post
title: "2023.6: Network storage, favorite light colors, new integrations dashboard"
description: "Add and use network storage, the integrations dashboard got a revamp, add your favorite colors to your lights, copy & paste support for automations, blazing speed through Python 3.11, and Matter and Z-Wave updates."
date: 2023-06-07 00:00:00
date_formatted: "June 7, 2023"
author: Franck Nijhof
author_twitter: frenck
comments: true
categories:
  - Release-Notes
  - Core
og_image: /images/blog/2023-06/social.png
---

<a href='/integrations/#version/2023.6'><img src='/images/blog/2023-06/social.png' style='border: 0;box-shadow: none;'></a>

Home Assistant Core 2023.6! 🎉

Get ready for a classic, old-fashioned, jam-packed release! 🤯

I am excited about so many things being shipped in this release that it is
hard to pick a favorite 😅 This release has it all.

Being able to directly use and back up my Home Assistant configuration to my
network storage is absolutely incredible! But I also really enjoy the new and
clean integrations dashboard and pages.

The feature that greatly improved the Home Approval Factor in my household

> is definitely the addition of the new favorite colors they can quickly pick

Reviewer 2: `so they can quickly be picked`?

Author: That part was removed (GitHub was having issues).

<img class="no-shadow" src='/images/blog/2023-06/network-storage.png' alt='Screenshot showing two external network storages attached to Home Assistant.'>

Even better: You can use it as a target for your backups so that when
Home Assistant creates a backup for you, it will store it directly on
your network storage.

Multiple network storages are also supported; if you like, you can
easily add more.

## Integrations dashboard & pages

The integrations dashboard has gotten a major overhaul!

There have been quite some usability issues with the previous version of the
integration dashboard. For example, if you use [ESPHome] with many devices,
you are undoubtedly familiar with the annoying scrolling in that little card. Or,
big error messages stretching those cards out, messing up the whole page.

This release brings in a whole new integrations dashboard that addresses many
of these issues, aiming to provide a cleaner and more consistent experience.

<img class="no-shadow" src='/images/blog/2023-06/integrations-dashboard.png' alt='Screenshot showing the look and feel of the new integrations dashboard.'>

Device base integrations, like ESPHome, are combined: no more scrolling.

> A failing integration does not stretch the layout and no longer makes the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A failing integration no longer stretches the layout or makes the
```

Each light (or light group) has its own set of colors. These colors can
be added, changed, removed, and reorganized using drag-and-drop. To enter
edit mode, select and hold one of the colors:

<img class="no-shadow" src='/images/blog/2023-06/edit-favorite-colors.gif' alt='Screen recording demonstrating editing favorite colors.'>

## Added to the entity dialog: last changed

By popular request, the information on when an entity was last changed has
been added back to the new entity information dialogs.

Not only that, [@piitaya] added a very nice easter egg! You can click on it
to toggle between the relative and absolute format!

<center><img class="no-shadow" src='/images/blog/2023-06/toggle-last-changed.gif' alt='Screen recording demonstrating how to toggle between relative and absolute time.'></center>

[@piitaya]: https://github.com/piitaya

## Related information

Which automation is using that blueprint? Well, Home Assistant can now tell you
that! On the {% my blueprints title="**Settings** > **Automations & Scenes** > **Blueprints**" %}
page, select the three dotted menu on any blueprint to discover which
automations are using that blueprint.

> Not only that, if you accidentally remove a blueprint that is still in use,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Not only that, if you accidentally try to remove a blueprint that is still in use,
```

Home Assistant will stop you from removing it and tell you which automations
still rely on it.

Hold on; there is more related! The related items in the entity information

> dialog got improved as well. Told old list of links is gone, and it now shows

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
dialog were improved as well. Told old list of links is gone, and it now shows
```

Author: ~~Seems like you reviewed on older version :)~~
